1 Preface
1.1 Player Responsibility
1.1.1 The UFA promotes highly competitive ultimate and is committed to protecting
the values of integrity and sportsmanship long associated with the game. The UFA
showcases the sport's top athletes performing at their top level. We expect our players
to respect the sport, each other, the rules, and safety. There is no room in our sport for
reckless play, cheating, or other win-at-all-costs behavior.
1.1.2 Ultimate is a sport that relies upon integrity and an adherence to the rules.
Players are expected to know and follow the rules at all times.
6

2 Field of Play
2.1 Field Dimensions
2.1.1 The field is a rectangle measuring 53 ⅓ yards wide by 80 yards long plus
20-yard end zones on each end.
2.1.2 The sidelines and back lines are out of bounds, while the pylons are neutral.
2.1.3 All field lines will be painted 4” wide.
Figure 1 Field Markings and Measurements
Figure 2 Playing Field Definitions
2.2 End Zones
2.2.1 UFA standard pylons are used to mark each corner of the end zones
and the center of the back lines.
2.2.2 Goal lines are a part of the primary playing field and are not a part of the end
zone.
7

2.3 Brick Marks
2.3.1 The brick marks are centered along the width of the field, 20 yards in front
of the goal lines on the primary playing field.
2.3.2 The reverse brick marks are centered along the width of the field, 10 yards
behind the goal lines on the entire playing field.
2.3.3 If a special exception has been granted to play on a 110 yard field (due to
venue limitations), the brick mark adjusts to 15 yards in front of the goal lines on
the primary playing field.
2.4 Field Boundaries
2.4.1 A restraining line shall be established 6 yards outside the perimeter of the entire
playing field. The area inside this line shall only be occupied by players on the field and
officials.
2.4.2 Each team member not on the field shall remain in their players’ box. The
players’ box is just outside the restraining line and, specific to the venue, either
2.4.2.1 Between the 10 and 30 yard lines of the ultimate field if both teams
are on the same sideline, or
2.4.2.2 Between the 10-yard lines of the ultimate field if the teams are on
opposite sidelines.
2.4.3 Officials must signal a timeout or stoppage in play before coaches, other team
members, or medical personnel are allowed onto the field.
2.4.4 Only team owners, a head coach, two assistants, medical staff, and team
members shall be allowed in, and must remain in, their players’ box when they are not
players on the field. Team personnel are not permitted to enter the opponent’s players’
box, and violators will be assessed a flagrant foul immediately. Coaches and medical staff
are not permitted to go to the scorer’s table except during a stoppage of play.
2.4.5 Any team personnel on the field or in the players’ box must conduct
themselves in a manner that would reflect favorably on the dignity of the game and the
officials. Violations by any team personnel require a written report to the UFA
Operations Department for subsequent action.
2.4.6 Team personnel in the players’ box are not permitted on the field during an
on-field altercation.
2.4.7 Violations of field boundary rules may result in flagrant fouls.
8

3 Equipment
3.1 The Disc
3.1.1 The disc shall be an officially approved UFA disc.
3.1.2 The home team shall provide at least 10 game-worthy (i.e., able to have
smooth flight; not warped or bent.) discs for each game. 1 disc shall be the initial game
disc. 4 discs shall be placed 3 yards from the primary playing field on each sideline, 2 at
each goal line, 2 at midfield, and 1 centered on the back of each endzone.
3.1.3 All game discs will be inspected by an official before the start of play.
3.2 Uniforms
3.2.1 Apparel or equipment that, in the judgment of officials, may endanger
or confuse opponents is illegal.
3.2.2 Each team shall wear their respective home or away jersey. In the event that the
uniforms cannot be adequately distinguished, in the judgment of officials, the head
official will designate which jerseys will be worn.
3.2.3 Each player shall be conspicuously numbered on the back of the jersey and
the front of the uniform. Their number must correspond with that listed with the
scorer. A player shall retain the same number throughout the game except when
permission to change is given by officials. Such change shall be reported to the scorer.
Any changing shall occur in the players’ box and not on the field.
3.2.4 Each player must be in uniform 10 minutes before the game starts and until the
game ends.
3.2.5 When on the field, players may not wear anything over their team jersey or
shorts. During the game, warmups may only be worn in the players’ box.
3.2.6 Hats may be worn while on the field but must be the official team hat and the
same style for all players who choose to wear them.
3.2.7 Visible base layers, headbands, wristbands, or any miscellaneous items shall be
any reasonable combination of black, white, grey, or official team colors and shall not be
frayed, ragged, or torn.
3.3 Inspection
3.3.1 Officials may inspect any equipment in order to ensure the safety of all players.
A player may not wear equipment that has the potential to cause injury to an
opponent (e.g., baseball cleats, track spikes, or golf shoes).
3.3.2 The use of metal or other hard objects to protect the body, such as casts,
guards, or braces, is permitted provided that such objects are appropriately covered on
all edges and surfaces by foam, rubber, or similar material. All face masks and eye or
nose protectors must conform to the contours of the face and have no sharp or
protruding edges.
9

3.3.3 Glasses or sunglasses are permitted only if they are wrapped 360 degrees
or affixed by elastic or similar material.
3.3.4 Before a game, players shall remove any articles likely to cause injury,
including, but not limited to: metal watches, large hoop earrings, and jewelry with
sharp edges.
3.3.5 All equipment used must be appropriate for ultimate. Equipment designed to
increase a player's height, reach, or to gain an unfair advantage, shall not be used.
10

4 Players
4.1 Teams
4.1.1 Each team shall have at least 12 and at most 20 players from the active roster
uniformed and ready to play at the beginning of each game.
4.1.2 Each team must have 7 players actively playing at all times during play.
Violations will result in a delay of game penalty.
4.1.3 In the event that there are only 7 eligible players remaining, and one of these
players must leave the game due to injury or ejection, the team must forfeit the game if
no injured player can return to play.
4.2 Starting Lineups
4.2.1 Teams shall supply the scorer with the name and number of each eligible player
and indicate the starting lineup at least 10 minutes before the game is scheduled to
begin.
4.3 Substitutions
4.3.1 Teams are permitted unlimited substitutions after a goal or a team timeout.
After a team timeout, teams may substitute the thrower with any other player,
including a player that was on the field when the timeout occurred. No other
substitutions are allowed during play unless a player is injured.
4.3.2 A player shall not be allowed to reenter the game after being ejected.
4.4 Captains
4.4.1 A team may have one captain and one co-captain. These may be any uniformed
player.
4.4.2 Team captains shall be identified to the scorer prior to the start of the game.
4.4.3 In the event that the captain is absent from the field and players’ box, the coach
shall immediately designate a new captain.
4.4.4 The captain is the only player who may ask an official about a rule interpretation
during a team timeout. The captain may not dispute a decision. The captain is entitled
to an explanation, but prolonged argument is not allowed.
4.4.5 A player-coach has no special privileges.
11

5 Game Format
5.1 Game Length
5.1.1 A regulation game consists of four 12 -minute quarters.
5.1.2 The game shall start promptly at the time prescribed by the UFA. If a team is
late appearing on the field for the 1
st or 3
rd quarter, they will be fined at the discretion of
the UFA.
5.1.3 The 3
rd quarter pull occurs after a 10 to 12-minute halftime, determined by the
home team 24 hours in advance. Any halftime over 12 minutes must be approved at
least one week in advance by the Office of the Commissioner. The 2
nd quarter pull, 4
th
quarter pull, and any overtime pulls occur 2 minutes and 30 seconds after the
conclusion of the previous period of play.
5.1.4 The receiving team is permitted 30 seconds after a goal to signal their
readiness. The pulling team is permitted 50 seconds after a goal to pull but may pull as
soon as the receiving team signals readiness. Any violation is a delay of game penalty.
5.1.5 A team timeout lasts a maximum of 60 seconds, and play must commence at
the end of the 60 seconds. Play may restart earlier if both teams clearly acknowledge to
the head official that they are ready. The decision to restart early is solely at the head
official’s discretion. If the defense is not ready, the offense may resume play. If the
offense is not ready, the stall count will commence if a marker is within 3 yards of
where the disc will come into play.
5.1.6 A team is permitted 60 seconds to stop the bleeding of a player, or that player
must be substituted.
5.1.7 A team is permitted 30 seconds to replace an ejected player.
5.2 Clock
5.2.1 The scoreboard clock shall be the official game clock and shall be operated
under the control of the timer. If there is no scoreboard clock, then either the head
official or the timer, at the head official’s discretion, will keep the official game clock.
5.2.2 Time starts at an official’s hand signal, and time stops at an official’s double
whistle or hand signal.
5.2.3 The clock shall be stopped after every goal and not restarted until either: (1)
the ensuing pull is released or (2) the disc is brought to the appropriate spot on the
field if an offside infraction occurred.
5.2.3.1 If there are 60 seconds or less remaining in any quarter or overtime
period at the time of the pull, the clock shall not restart after a goal until either:
(1) an in-bounds disc is touched by an offensive player,(2) the release of the
first pass if the pull lands or rolls out of bounds untouched, or (3) the release of
the first pass if an offside infraction occurred.
12

5.2.4 The clock shall not stop for general fouls, stalls, or when the disc is out of
bounds, unless there are 60 seconds or less remaining in any quarter or overtime
period. Officials will stop the clock for any Flagrant or Technical foul. Officials may use
their discretion to stop the clock if there is a need to discuss a call.
5.2.5 If the clock shows 00:00.0 and the disc is in the air, the play shall continue
until the result of the throw is determined. No subsequent throw shall be permitted,
regardless of the existence of a pivot foot. The period or game will end when the disc
touches the ground or is caught.
5.2.6 If a defensive foul occurs and there are 5 seconds or less remaining in any
quarter or overtime period, then the defense may not set up a double team on the
thrower bringing the disc back into play.
5.3 Coin Toss
5.3.1 Each quarter will begin with a pull as determined by the game’s initial coin toss.
5.3.2 Immediately prior to the game, the captains of both teams will meet the
officials at midfield.
5.3.2.1 The head official will identify the sides of the coin and then toss the
coin. The visiting team captain will call “heads” or “tails.”
5.3.2.2 The captain of the team winning the coin toss will choose to start the
game by either: (1) deciding to throw or receive the pull (possession), or (2)
deciding which end zone to defend (position). The captain of the other team will
choose from the remaining option (possession or position).
5.3.3 The results of the original decisions will be reversed after the conclusion of each
quarter so that teams will switch possession and position each quarter.
5.4 Overtime
5.4.1 If the score is tied at the end of the 4
th quarter, then the captain from each team
will meet with the head official to repeat the coin toss procedure used to start the
game. Play shall resume with a pull 2 minutes and 30 seconds after the coin toss.
5.4.2 If the score is tied at the end of the 1
st overtime, then a 2
nd overtime shall
resume with a pull after 2 minutes and 30 seconds. There is no coin toss; the results of
the decisions from the 1
st overtime coin toss are reversed.
5.4.3 The 1
st overtime is 5 minutes and has the same rules as regulation. If the score is
still tied after the 1
st overtime, the 2
nd overtime will be sudden death, with the first team
scoring winning the game. The 2
nd overtime has no game clock.
5.4.4 Each team has exactly 1 timeout in each and every overtime period.
13

6 The Pull
6.1 The Pull
6.1.1 A pull starts play at the beginning of each quarter and after each goal.
6.1.2 After a goal, the team that just scored pulls from behind the horizontal line of
the brick mark from the side of the field in which the goal was scored.
6.1.3 The pull may occur only after an official has signaled readiness for the
receiving team.
6.2 Pull Positioning
6.2.1 Players on the pulling team may move about their end of the field anywhere
behind their brick mark prior to the pull, but no foot may be on or across the horizontal
line extending from the brick mark when the pull is released.
6.2.2 Players on the receiving team must have at least one foot on their goal line, and
they may not change their order or substitute after signaling readiness. Players on the
receiving team may have their second foot on, in front of, behind, to the side of, or
above their goal line.
6.2.3 All players must be fully visible to the opposing team from the time between
signaling readiness and the pull.
6.2.4 No player on the receiving team may substitute once the receiving team signals
readiness, and no player on either team may substitute after the pull or after an offside
infraction.
6.2.5 Once the pull occurs, players may move freely.
6.2.6 Any pull positioning violation is an offside infraction.
6.2.7 Offside is treated as follows:
6.2.7.1 If the receiving team is offside, then the receiving team starts with
the disc at the reverse brick, after all players set up and an official whistles to
restart play.
6.2.7.2 If the pulling team is offside, then the receiving team starts with the
disc at midfield, after all players set up and an official whistles to restart play.
6.2.7.3 If both teams are offside, then the receiving team starts with the disc at
the brick, after all players set up and an official blows the whistle to restart play.
6.3 Untouched Pull
6.3.1 If the pull is not touched in the air by the receiving team, then the
following occurs:
6.3.1.1 If the pull lands and stays in bounds anywhere on the primary playing
field or receiving team’s end zone, the disc is put into play where it stops.
14

6.3.1.2 If the pull lands in bounds and then becomes out of bounds at or after
the midfield line, the disc is put into play on the entire playing field closest to the
line where the disc first went out of bounds (e.g., if the disc rolls out the back of
the end zone, the disc is put into play on the back line).
6.3.1.3 If the pull lands out of bounds, the receiving team can choose to put
the disc into play at:
● The spot on the entire playing field nearest to where the pull last went out
of bounds; or
● The defended brick, if the player indicates so to an official before picking
up the disc; or
● The middle of the width of the entire playing field nearest where the
pull last went out of bounds, if the player indicates so to an official
before picking up the disc.
6.3.1.4 If the pull lands in bounds and then becomes out of bounds prior to the
midfield line, the receiving team can choose to put the disc into play at:
● The spot on the entire playing field nearest to where the pull last went out
of bounds; or
● The middle of the width of the entire playing field nearest where the
pull last went out of bounds, if the player indicates so to an official
before picking up the disc.
6.4 Catching the Pull
6.4.1 If the pull is caught in bounds, the disc is immediately put into play where it was
caught.
6.4.2 If the pull is caught out of bounds, the disc is put into play on the entire playing
field nearest to where it was caught.
6.4.3 The player that catches or picks up the disc after a pull must put it into play.
6.5 Unusual Items
6.5.1 If a player on the receiving team touches the pull before it first contacts the
ground, and the disc then makes ground contact before any player on the receiving team
catches the disc, it is a turnover.
6.5.2 If a player on the receiving team touches the pull before it first contacts the
ground, and the pulling team catches the disc in the end zone, then it is not a goal. The
pulling team will put the disc into play centered on the goal line after an official whistle
to start play.
6.5.3 If a player on the pulling team touches the pull in the air before the receiving
team does, then it is a delay of game penalty.
6.5.4 If the pull lands behind the pulling team’s brick mark or goes out of bounds
behind the pulling team’s brick mark, the receiving team will put the disc into play
centered on the goal line after an official blows the whistle to start play.
15

7 Out of Bounds
7.1 Perimeter
7.1.1 The sidelines and back lines are out of bounds.
7.1.2 The ground outside of the entire playing field, and everything and all nonplayers in contact with it, are out of bounds.
7.1.3 Officials are neutral; they are neither in nor out of bounds.
7.2 Live Play
7.2.1 A player is out of bounds if they contact anything out of bounds, except:
7.2.1.1 Players in air retain their bounds status based on last ground contact.
7.2.1.2 Players retain their inbounds status if momentum carries them out of
bounds after catching a disc if their first point of ground contact is completely in
bounds. They must carry the disc at any speed or combination of speeds to the
spot on the primary playing field nearest where they first crossed the perimeter.
7.2.1.3 Throwers retain their inbounds status if pivoting carries a thrower out of
bounds, as long as the pivot is in bounds.
7.2.1.4 Players do not transfer their status to other players through contact.
7.2.1.5 Defensive players are never considered out of bounds.
7.2.2 A disc is out of bounds when it contacts anything out of bounds, or when it is
caught by a defender who lands out of bounds. The defender must then put the disc into
play on the primary playing field nearest where the disc was caught.
7.2.3 A disc in the air may cross the perimeter and return to the entire playing field.
Players may make plays on the disc at any point in its flight.
7.2.4 If a disc in the air contacts an unusual item that is not part of the field of play and is
stationary, then it is a turnover and play resumes where the disc exited the playing field. If
a disc in the air contacts an unusual item that is not part of the field of play and is moving,
then the disc is sent back to the thrower and the stall count is reset.
7.2.5 When a disc is out of bounds, a player may signal for a disc from an official, who
will place the disc on the primary playing field perimeter closest to where the disc will be
put into play or hand the disc to the player if they are waiting where the disc will be put
into play, or the team gaining possession may pick up and immediately carry the disc at any
speed or combination of speeds to the spot on the primary playing field nearest where the
most recent event occurred:
• The disc finished crossing the perimeter,
• An inbounds offensive player touched the disc,
• A defender touched the disc, or
• The disc became out of bounds before crossing the perimeter.
16

7.2.6 The thrower has 10 seconds to establish a pivot after an official indicates where the
disc shall be put into play.
17

8 Turnovers
8.1 Throws
8.1.1 If a thrown disc is not caught in bounds, then it is a turnover. The player must be
in bounds and their very first point of contact must be completely in bounds and not on
the perimeter.
8.1.2 If a player is about to catch a disc in bounds, but the player is forced to land out
of bounds by an opponent, then it is still a catch and the player must put the disc into
play on the entire playing field nearest to where they would have landed.
8.1.3 If a thrown disc is intercepted, then it is a turnover. If the defender proceeds to
lose control due to ground contact, then it is still a single turnover and the original
defense maintains possession.
8.1.4 If a disc in play is dropped by the thrower, and the disc is not caught, then it is a
turnover. If the disc is caught by the thrower before another player contacts the disc,
then the stall count continues.
18

9 Status of the Disc
9.1 Stall Count
9.1.1 The stall count shall be silently kept by the official behind the thrower, and the
official will arm chop for counts 5, 6, and 7. A verbal count will also accompany count’s
5 and 6.
9.1.1.1 The official shall call “stalling” and begin the stall count once the
thrower has the disc and a marker is within 3 yards of the proper pivot spot.
9.1.1.2 The official shall call and signal "reset,” and cease the stall count if
there is no longer any marker within 3 yards of the proper pivot spot. If any
marker resumes position within 3 yards of the proper pivot spot, the stall count
shall begin at 0.
9.1.1.3 One second shall elapse between each number in the stall count.
9.1.1.4 If the stall count reaches 7 before the disc is released, then it is an
immediate turnover at the spot of the pivot. A player hearing the count is not
required to enforce a Stall penalty.
9.2 End Zone Possession
9.2.1 If a team gains possession after a turnover in the end zone they are defending,
they will either:
● Put the disc into play where the disc is picked up, or
● Immediately carry the disc at any speed or combination of speeds to
the nearest spot on the goal line.
9.2.2 If a team gains possession in the end zone that they are attacking due to a foul,
then the team will put the disc into play centered on the goal line after an official
whistles to start play.
19

10 Offense
10.1 The Thrower
10.1.1 Any offensive player may pick the disc up from the ground, and that player must
put the disc into play.
10.1.2 The offense has 10 seconds to put the disc into play if the disc is resting on the
entire playing field. If the disc lands out of bounds, the 10 seconds will begin once an
official places a disc at the proper spot on the primary playing field, or once a player
picks up the out of bounds disc. After 10 seconds, an official signals play to begin and
initiates a stall count if a marker is within 3 yards of where the disc will come into play.
Officials will suspend this count if officials determine that the disc cannot reasonably be
put into play within 10 seconds.
10.1.3 The thrower must establish a pivot at the exact spot of the disc if the disc is
resting on the primary playing field. If the disc is picked up other than where it is to
be put into play, the thrower must establish a pivot at the spot the official indicates.
10.2 The Receiver
10.2.1 A player must stop as quickly as possible and establish a pivot after catching
the disc.
10.2.2 A player may throw the disc without stopping and establishing a pivot if:
● The player does not speed up or change direction after catching the disc, and
● The player throws the disc before they take a third step after catching
the disc.
10.2.3 A player may kick or bobble the disc in order to catch it, but may not
intentionally move the disc in any direction by kicking, tipping, brushing,
delaying, MACing, or otherwise bobbling the disc to themselves. To do so is a
travel.
10.2.4 A player may tip, brush, or MAC any throw, including their own, to another
player.
10.2.5 Offense maintains possession if the offense and defense catch the disc
simultaneously.
10.2.6 If the disc contacts the ground without a player being in complete possession,
it is a turnover. If a disc is caught and hits the ground simultaneously, it is not a catch.
20

11 Defense
11.1 The Marker
11.1.1 The marker is either of up to 2 defenders in a 3-yard radius of the thrower.
11.1.2 A marker is in an illegal marking position if a line between any two points on the
marker is less than one disc diameter away from the thrower’s torso or pivot, unless
such positioning is caused solely by the thrower’s movement.
11.1.3 A marker is permitted to establish a position in the path of a thrower’s
desired non-pivot foot placement, provided the marker does not straddle the
thrower’s pivot foot.
11.2 Positioning
11.2.1 Players are allowed to be anywhere on the field, unless overridden by another
rule, as long as such position and movement does not cause contact.
11.2.2 Players must allow opponents the space required to stop after catching the disc.
Players must allow airborne opponents the space required to land and stop after
catching the disc.
11.2.3 A player may turn slightly to protect themselves from imminent contact but is
never allowed to bend over to trip, flip, or block an opponent.
21

12 Scoring
12.1 Goals
12.1.1 A goal is scored when an inbounds player catches the disc in the end zone
they are attacking and maintains possession of the disc throughout ground contact.
12.1.2 If the player’s first point of ground contact after the catch is completely in the
end zone and not on the goal line or perimeter, then it is a goal.
12.1.3 If a goal is about to be scored, but the player is forced to land out of bounds or
out of the end zone by an opponent, or a foul causes the player to lose the disc after
the catch, then it is a goal.
12.1.4 If a player catches the disc and lands outside the end zone they are
attacking, and their momentum carries them into the end zone, they must carry the
disc at any speed or combination of speeds to the nearest spot on the goal line.
22

13 Fouls
13.1 Spot Fouls
13.1.1 Spot fouls award the appropriate player or team possession of the disc at the
spot of the foul. If the spot foul is against the defense, the fouled offensive player is
awarded possession. If the spot foul is against the offense, then it is a turnover, and the
fouled defensive player is awarded possession in instances where there is a specific
defensive player fouled.
13.1.2 Illegal Pass – Any illegal pass results in an immediate turnover at the spot of the
result of the pass. It is an illegal pass if:
13.1.2.1 The thrower hands the disc to a teammate;
13.1.2.2 The thrower catches their own pass before the disc has been
touched by another player; or
13.1.2.3 The thrower deliberately bounces a pass off of an opponent.
13.1.3 Pass Interference – Contact that affects an opponent’s ability to make a play on
a disc in the air is pass interference.
13.1.3.1 A player may not position themselves solely to prevent an
opponent from making a play on the disc if the position results in contact.
13.1.3.2 Possession is awarded to the fouled player at the spot of the
foul, plus 10 yards in the fouled player’s direction of attack.
13.1.3.3 For offensive pass interference in the attacking endzone, the
result is a turnover, and possession is awarded to the fouled player at the
front of the endzone, plus 10 yards in the fouled player’s direction of attack.
13.1.3.4 If an offensive player is fouled in the endzone but still
catches the disc, then the goal is awarded, pass interference is called, and
the 10 yard penalty is applied on the ensuing pull.
13.1.4 Illegal Assistance – Players may not intentionally push off a teammate,
physically assist a teammate, or use equipment (e.g., hats) in an effort to catch or block
the disc.
13.2 General Fouls
13.2.1 A 10-yard penalty occurs when a foul is committed.
13.2.2 Contact (With the Thrower) – If a marker is in illegal marking position, all
contact that occurs between the thrower, defined as the body and the possessed
disc, and a marker is a foul, unless it is solely and aggressively initiated by the
thrower.
13.2.2.1 If a thrower is in a throwing motion, all contact initiated by a
marker is a foul.
13.2.2.2 A thrower may not push or pivot into the body of a marker in a
legal marking position.
23

13.2.2.3 A thrower may not initiate contact with a marker by
vigorously swinging an elbow.
13.2.2.4 Contact on the follow through after the throw is not a foul.
13.2.3 Contact (Away From the Thrower) – Players may not hold, push, charge into, or impede
the progress of an opponent by extending a hand, arm, leg, knee, or by bending the
body into a position that is not typical. Contact that results in the rerouting of an
opponent is a foul.
13.2.3.1 A player may not position themselves in a way that creates a
scenario where contact with a moving opponent is unavoidable.
13.2.3.2 Players must be in control of their bodies at all times. Contact
due to recklessness is a foul.
13.2.3.3 Mere contact is not necessarily a foul. Light, negligible contact is
permitted if the contact does not affect a player’s play, including their speed,
balance, catch, throw, pivot, or jump. Accidental contact away from the disc that
does not affect play is permitted.
13.2.3.4 Yards are marked from the spot the disc was last possessed
when the foul occurred. If the disc was in the air, yards are marked from the
spot of the result of the pass, if the foul did not affect the pass.
13.2.3.5 If a disc is unplayable, then there is no foul unless there is a
flagrant foul. If a referee determines that the disc could not be caught inbounds
and the play could not result in an attempted greatest, then the disc is
unplayable.
13.2.4 Strip – It is a strip if a player dislodges or pulls the disc from an opponent who
has possession. The infracted player maintains possession plus the disc is advanced 10
yards in the attacking direction. If a strip occurs in the end zone, it is a goal.
13.2.5 Travel – Any of the following occurrences constitute a travel:
● A player catches the disc and either changes direction or does not stop
as soon as possible.
● A player throws the disc after three steps and before establishing a pivot.
● A player intentionally moves the disc in any direction by kicking, tipping,
brushing, delaying, “MACing”, or otherwise bobbling the disc to
themselves.
● An illegal pivot position is established, whether on a perimeter, in the
end zone, upon picking up the disc, or in any other situation.
● If the thrower’s pivot moves before the disc is thrown, then it is a travel
at the spot of the original pivot.
13.2.5.1 Exceptions:
● A player may throw the disc before the third step if they do not
change direction or increase speed.
● A player may throw from the ground.
● A player may stand up and establish a pivot after a diving catch.
● A player may reset the pivot if play stops.
24

13.2.5.2 Penalty yards for any travel shall be assessed from the proper
pivot spot (e.g., if a receiver does not stop as soon as possible, then the 10
yard penalty shall be assessed from where the player should have stopped).
13.2.5.3 Travel rules apply any time that a player takes possession of the
disc, not just after a catch.
13.2.5.4 If a player travels and releases the disc resulting in a
completion, the play is whistled dead and the penalty is assessed from the spot
of the travel.
13.2.5.5 If a player travels and releases the disc resulting in a turnover,
the turnover stands and live play continues.
13.2.5.6 If a player travels and releases the disc before, during, or after a
whistle is blown to signify the travel call, the disc is dead and the penalty is
assessed from the spot of the travel.
13.2.6 Pick – If a defender is within 3 yards of their offensive player, and the line to
guard the offensive player is obstructed, then it is a pick unless otherwise stated.
13.2.6.1 An offensive player may be as close as possible in front of or
to the side of a stationary defender if contact is not made. This is not a pick,
as the defender can avoid the offensive player.
13.2.6.2 An offensive player must allow a defender space to take a
reasonable step backwards without contact, or it is a pick.
13.2.6.3 If a defender intentionally moves in order to be picked, then it is
not a pick.
13.2.6.4 If both the offensive player and the obstructing player are
making a play on the disc in the air, then it is not a pick.
13.2.6.5 On a pick, advantage applies if the disc is in the air or if the
thrower is in a throwing motion; advantage does not apply if the disc is not in
the air and the thrower is not in a throwing motion. Referees should
immediately whistle if there is no advantage and delay the whistle if advantage
applies.
13.2.6.5.1 If advantage does not apply, or if advantage applies,
the pick affects the play, and the offense catches the disc, then the
original thrower maintains possession and yards are marked from the
original thrower.
13.2.6.5.2 If advantage applies and the pass results in a turnover,
then the turnover stands and play continues without stoppage.
13.2.6.5.3 If advantage applies, the pick does not affect the play,
and the offense catches the disc, then the receiver maintains possession
and yards are marked from the receiver. If the offense catches the disc
in the end zone, then it is a goal and there is no penalty.
13.2.7 Triple Team – It is a triple team foul if a 3
rd defender, in addition to the 2
markers, is in a 3 yard radius of the thrower unless they are:
25

● Also in a 3 yard radius of an offensive player that they are guarding; or
● They are simply running across without deliberately interfering with throws,
as determined by an official.
13.2.8 Vision Blocking – It is a vision blocking foul if the marker intentionally blocks the
thrower's vision.
13.2.9 Delay of Game – It is a delay of game if a player delays the flow of the game or
uses a stoppage of play to gain an unfair advantage.
13.2.9.1 It is a delay of game if there are not 7 players actively playing
for a team. The team must have 7 players after the foul yards are marked for
play to resume.
13.3 Unsporting Acts
13.3.1 A 20-yard penalty and possible ejection occurs when a foul is committed in
which there is immediate danger to the players involved, or if any other Flagrant,
Technical, or Team Technical foul is committed. Flagrant, Technical, and Team Technical
fouls can be called on any team personnel, not just players on the field.
13.3.2 A player or any team personnel must be ejected for the remainder of the game
if they commit the following in the same game:
● 2 Flagrant fouls, or
● 2 Technical fouls, or
● 3 Team Technical Fouls, or
● 2 Team Technical Fouls and 1 Flagrant or Technical Foul
At an official’s discretion, a player or any team personnel may be ejected after
only 1 Flagrant or Technical foul. If an official believes a player intentionally
commits a foul to gain advantage, the player will be immediately ejected. All
ejections trigger an automatic and immediate disciplinary review by the Executive
Council or a designated Committee.
13.3.3 Ejected players must leave the field immediately and cannot remain in the
players’ box, on the sidelines, or in the stands. Ejections must be reported to the
UFA Operations Department.
13.3.4 Flagrant Foul – A team can never benefit from committing Flagrant Fouls
on a specific play. Flagrant Fouls include plays that go above and beyond a typical
foul. Flagrant Fouls include but are not limited to:
● Aggressively attempting or making contact (e.g. throwing elbows, shoving
or lowering a shoulder);
● Marking in a way that the thrower cannot possibly throw;
● Laying out in such a way that the path must go through the lower body of an
opponent;
● Wrapping a receiver so that they cannot possibly make a play on the disc;
● Any act that endangers the safety of the other opponents on the field
26

13.3.5 Technical Foul - Technical fouls are called for unsportsmanlike conduct or
violations that do not involve physical contact with an opponent. These fouls are
typically assessed for behavior or actions that disrupt the flow of the game, including
but not limited to:
● Spiking the disc on or toward an opponent in a taunting manner;
● Deliberate delay of the game;
● Using profanity, excessive taunting, or derogatory language toward an
opponent;
● Disrespectfully addressing or continuously criticizing an official, or
overtly indicating resentment to a call;
● Entering the field without an official’s permission
13.3.6 Team Technical Foul– Team Technical Fouls are assessed to the head coach of
the violating team for repeated fouling, including but not limited to:
● Repeated, intentional bumps on the mark;
● Repeated contact on the mark;
● Repeatedly grabbing receivers
13.3.7 All Flagrant, Technical, and Team Technical Foul calls must be reported to the
UFA’s Director of Officiating.
13.3.8 Fighting – The following acts constitute fighting:
● Aggressive contact as determined by an official;
● Intentional elbows that make contact;
● A punch, kick, or other blow regardless of contact;2
● Intentionally contacting an official; or
● Intentionally entering the stands other than as a continuance of play.
13.3.8.1 All participants will be ejected immediately.
13.3.8.2 Fighting fouls can be assessed on any personnel whether play
is live, suspended, or stopped.
13.3.8.3 All fighting incidents must be reported immediately to the
UFA Operations Department.
13.3.9 If an unsporting act is committed after a goal or between periods, each team
shall move the appropriate 20 yards for the ensuing pull or restart of play. If it is against
the pulling team, the pulling team starts 20 yards behind their brick mark and the
receiving team may choose to start 20 yards ahead of their goal line or on their goal line.
If it is against the receiving team, the receiving team starts at their back line and the
pulling team starts 20 yards further up field from their brick mark.
13.3.10 If the defense commits a palpably unfair act that prevents an offensive player
from catching a disc in their attacking endzone, then a goal may be awarded.
13.4 General Enforcement
13.4.1 Any foul committed by the defense will result in yardage for the offense and a
new stall count.
27

13.4.1.1 If the foul yardage would place an offensive player inside the
attacking end zone, the fouled offensive player shall put the disc into play
centered on the goal line.
13.4.1.2 A defensive spot foul committed in the attacking end zone will
result in the fouled offensive player putting the disc into play centered on the
goal line, unless the player catches the disc and is forced to land out of bounds
or out of the end zone by the defense or a foul causes the player to lose the
disc after the catch, in which case it is a goal.
13.4.1.3 Any foul or stall committed with 60 seconds or less remaining
in any quarter or overtime shall stop the clock. Any Flagrant or Technical foul
shall stop the clock.
13.4.2 Any foul committed by the offense will result in negative yards for the offense
and a resumption of the stall count at the next number, unless it is a turnover. If a foul
committed by the offense results in a turnover, the turnover stands. If a foul committed
by the thrower does not result in a turnover, and the next number in the stall count is
seven, then the disc shall be returned to the thrower and it is an immediate turnover at
the spot of the pivot. If a foul is committed by a non-thrower, then the maximum stall
count when play resumes is six.
13.4.2.1 If the negative yards are more than half the distance to the
back line, yards equal to half the distance to the back line will be assessed
instead.
13.4.2.2 An offensive spot foul committed in the defended end zone will
result in the fouled defensive player putting the disc into play centered on the
goal line, unless the defensive player catches the disc and is forced to land out of
bounds or out of the end zone by the offense or a foul causes the player to lose
the disc after the catch, in which case it is a goal.
13.4.3 Penalty yards shall be walked off by the player quickly and the stall count shall
begin as soon as the thrower has possession at the new spot and an official blows the
whistle to restart play.
13.4.4 Only flagrant or technical fouls committed after a goal shall have the yards
enforced on the pull. General fouls committed after a goal do not affect the play and
no yards are enforced.
13.4.5 If a foul causes another foul, only the first foul is penalized (e.g. contact causing
a travel, or contact causing pass interference).
13.5 Double Fouls
13.5.1 A double foul occurs when 2 players foul each other and/or there are 2
unrelated fouls during the same general play.
13.5.2 If a double foul is called when the disc is not in the air, the offense shall retain
possession with a reset stall count.
13.5.3 If a double foul is called when the disc is in the air, and the double foul affects
the play on the disc, the disc will go back to the thrower with a reset stall count.
28

13.6 Integrity Rule
13.6.1 Any player or head coach can overturn any call made by an official if the official’s
call favored the player’s or coach’s own team. Officials shall respect the integrity call.
This allows teams to display sportsmanship and remedy an incorrect call against their
opponent. A call includes fouls, stalls, or decisions regarding the results of a play (e.g.,
goal vs. no goal, in vs. out of bounds).
13.6.2 A player can call a foul against themselves if the call would result in a change in
possession (e.g., a player may call a foul against themselves for fouling the thrower and
causing a turnover).
13.6.3 Any integrity call resets the stall count to zero.
13.7 Advantage
13.7.1 An official may allow play to continue after a foul if stopping play would unfairly
punish the fouled team and no players are endangered.
13.7.2 If a foul occurs when the thrower is in a throwing motion or when the disc is in
the air, officials will not immediately whistle but signal advantage and delay the call until
the result of the pass is determined, unless player safety is at risk.
13.7.2.1 General Fouls - If the team fouled would be disadvantaged by a
stoppage of play, then officials will allow play to continue without any stoppage.
If the team fouled would not be disadvantaged by a stoppage of play, then
officials will whistle and enforce the foul from the spot of the foul.
13.7.2.2 Unsport Acts Fouls - On an Unsporting Act Foul, play continues
until the result of the play is determined, or upon completion of an imminent
scoring opportunity as determined by the official, whichever is later. Once play
is stopped in this fashion, the 20-yard penalty will be enforced from where play
was stopped, or where the Technical or Flagrant Foul occurred, whichever is to
the benefit of the team offended. If a goal is scored, the penalty will be
enforced on the ensuing pull.
13.7.3 During the last 60 seconds of any quarter or overtime, the game clock will be
reset to when the foul occurred, not when the delayed foul was called.
13.7.4 If multiple fouls occur during advantage, then fouls are resolved in the order in
which they occurred.
13.8 Disciplinary Review Due to Accumulation of Physical-Related
Flagrant Fouls
13.8.1 Any player who accumulates 2 or more flagrant fouls over a course of a season
will be brought before the Executive Council, or designated Committee, for a review
and potential disciplinary action. Each additional flagrant foul by that player will trigger
an additional disciplinary review.
29

14 Stoppages
14.1 Team Timeout
14.1.1 A timeout stops play, stops the game clock, resets the stall count, and allows all
players to be substituted. Teams may substitute the thrower with any other player,
including a player that was on the field when the timeout occurred.
14.1.2 Each team has 2 timeouts per half. Teams may not use their 2 timeouts
consecutively. Play must occur before the second can be called.
14.1.3 Each team has exactly 1 timeout in each and every overtime period.
14.1.4 A timeout lasts 60 seconds. The offense may substitute players only during the
first 30 seconds of the timeout. After the first 30 seconds, all 7 offensive players must
be on the field, and no other offensive players except the head coach can be on the
field. The defense may substitute players only during the first 50 seconds of the
timeout. After the first 50 seconds, all 7 defensive players must be on the field, and no
other defensive players except the head coach can be on the field. This does not apply
to timeouts after a goal and before the ensuing pull.
14.1.5 Any player or coach may call a timeout between the time a goal is scored and
the disc is pulled.
14.1.6 During play, only a thrower with the disc and a proper pivot, or the designated
coach of a thrower with the disc and a proper pivot, if that coach is not also a player on
the field at the time, can call a timeout, unless a turnover has just occurred. The coach is
allowed out of the players’ box to make this call.
14.1.7 If a turnover has just occurred, any player or the designated coach on the team
about to take possession may call a timeout as soon as the disc becomes out of bounds
or comes to a rest anywhere on the entire playing field.
14.1.8 Any player entitled to call a timeout should audibly say “timeout” and must
make a T with one hand and the disc or the other hand. The designated coach entitled to
call a timeout should audibly say "timeout" and must make a T with their hands. The
timeout starts once an official recognizes the timeout. The disc is then placed at the
proper pivot spot.
14.1.9 Notifying Officials of Timeouts: While not mandatory, team coaches can elect to
throw an UFA pre-approved flag onto the field of play in their effort to get the attention
of the Officials of their desire to call a timeout. This does not replace any other method
of notification to Officials; rather, it is an option coaches can use in addition to all
previously approved methods. The use of whistles by teams to get the attention of the
Official to call a timeout is prohibited.
14.1.10 If anyone entitled to call a timeout calls a timeout when no timeouts remain, it
is a turnover and play stops. If anyone entitled to call a timeout calls a timeout between
points when no timeouts remain, then it is a delay of game. If anyone not entitled to call
a timeout calls a timeout, it shall be ignored.
30

14.1.11 To restart play after a timeout:
14.1.11.1 The thrower resumes possession at the proper pivot spot. All
other players may move freely prior to an official’s whistle to restart play.
14.1.11.2 The game clock shall be started when an official blows the
whistle to restart play, unless there are 60 seconds or less remaining in any
quarter or overtime period.
14.2 Injury Timeout
14.2.1 In the event that an official must call a timeout for an injured, ill, or
bleeding player, the official will stop play either:
● Immediately, if the issue seems critical;
● Immediately, if the disc is not in the air;
● Upon the result of the throw, if the disc is in the air; or
● Upon completion of an imminent scoring opportunity, as determined by
the official.
14.2.2 The player’s team is charged a timeout if the injured player is not substituted,
unless the injury was caused by an opponent. If the team charged the timeout has
possession and has no timeouts remaining, then it is a turnover. If the team charged the
timeout does not have possession and has no timeouts remaining, then it is a delay of
game penalty.
14.2.3 To restart play after an injury timeout:
14.2.3.1 The injured player must be treated. If the player is
unable to continue to play after 60 seconds, the player must be
substituted.
14.2.3.2 If a substitution occurs, the opposing team may also
substitute a player.
14.2.3.3 Before playing again, the injured player must receive
appropriate treatment by medical staff. Any concussed player must be
cleared by medical staff. Any wound or lesion must be covered with an
appropriate dressing that will prevent contamination to and from other
sources. Sweatbands are not sufficient.
14.2.3.4 The thrower resumes possession at the same spot when the
timeout was called, and all other players may move freely prior to an official’s
whistle to restart play. If the thrower is substituted, then the substitute must
become the new thrower.
14.2.3.5 The stall count is reset to 0.
14.2.3.6 The game clock shall be started when an official whistles to restart play.
31

14.3 Technical Timeout
14.3.1 An official may call a technical timeout for illegal equipment, a dangerous
condition, a broken disc, or other administrative reasons.
14.3.2 An official may briefly delay a whistle to restart play to allow a player to correct
equipment issues (e.g., to tie shoes or straighten a disc). If the player cannot correct the
equipment issue quickly, then the official will whistle to restart play.
14.3.3 The stall count is reset to 0.
14.4 Final 60 Seconds in Any Period or Overtime
14.4.1 During the last 60 seconds of any quarter or overtime period, the clock shall
stop due to any turnover out of bounds, foul, stall or pull landing or becoming out of
bounds not touched by the receiving team. When 60 seconds remain in any quarter or
overtime period and play has not yet resumed after any turnover out of bounds, foul,
stall, or pull landing or becoming out of bounds untouched by the receiving team,
then the clock shall stop immediately.
14.4.2 If the clock is stopped during the last 60 seconds of any quarter or overtime
period due to any turnover out of bounds, foul, stall, or team timeout during a point, or
if the pull lands or becomes out of bounds untouched by the receiving team, the
prestall or stall count shall be started when an official whistles to restart play, but the
game clock shall be started upon the release of the first throw.
14.4.3 If a defensive foul occurs after the clock has expired with the disc in the air, the
offense will be entitled to one untimed throw with a stall count after enforcing the foul.
32

15 Officials, Statisticians and Timers
15.1 Game Officials
15.1.1 The game officials are the 1 head official, 1 trailing official, and 2 sideline
officials. They will be assisted by a statistician, a timer, and at least 2 disc-runners. All
officials shall be approved and managed by the UFA.
15.1.2 Officials shall wear the UFA prescribed uniform.
15.2 Officials’ Duties
15.2.1 Prior to the start of the game, officials will inspect all equipment, including
the field, game discs, equipment, uniforms, and timer’s and statistician's equipment.
All officials shall be present during the 10-minute pre-game period to observe any
additional issues.
15.2.2 The head official shall preside over the coin toss and shall be the official in
charge. The head official shall issue final rulings when officials, statisticians, or timer
disagree.
15.2.3 Officials must report any atypical incident to the UFA Commissioner, including
fighting or a team's failure to have 12 players at any point.
15.2.4 Calls made by officials on the field will stand and cannot be changed based on
video playback or pictures provided by anyone outside the officiating crew.
15.3 Scope
15.3.1 Officials have the power to enforce the rules on or outside the entire playing
field, even if the game is stopped.
15.3.2 After a foul, an official will: (1) whistle, (2) signal and announce the specific foul,
(3) announce the offending team when appropriate, (4) signal the direction of yardage
or new direction of attack, (5) ensure the player takes possession at the new spot, and
(6) whistle to restart play. If a player throws the disc before the whistle to restart play, it
is a delay of game penalty.
15.3.3 If an official erroneously whistles during play, play shall stop. An official shall
whistle to restart play once the thrower has the disc.
15.3.4 Officials may suspend play for any unusual circumstance.
15.3.5 The following calls or situations can specifically be rectified by the head official
(this list is not complete, as officials can invoke the elastic power): In bounds vs. out of
bounds; goal vs. no goal; up vs. down; foul vs. no foul; identifying the player that
committed a foul; stall counts; and determining when a timeout occurred.
15.3.6 Officials are considered physically neutral and are treated as air if a player or
disc makes contact with them. They are neither in nor out of bounds.
33

15.4 Competing Decisions
15.4.1 The head official has the authority to overrule or question decisions made
by another official.
15.4.2 The closest official shall determine if a goal is scored. If officials disagree, the
head official shall issue the final ruling.
15.5 Elastic Power
15.5.1 Officials have the power to make decisions on any point not covered in the
rules. The UFA Commissioner must be informed as soon as possible of the decision and
its rationale.
15.6 Statisticians
15.6.1 The statistician shall record goals, the time of each goal, the player making each
pass and turnover and the location of each pass / catch including goals. If there is
confusion about the score, the statistician shall check with the head official
immediately. If no error can be found, the head official shall accept the statistician’s
record, unless they have information to overrule the statistician.
15.6.2 The statistician shall record the player who creates a turnover, including
a turnover that is also a goal (“Callahan”).
15.6.3 The statistician shall record the name of the team that receives each pull.
15.6.4 The statistician shall record team timeouts. The statistician shall notify a team,
its coach, and the head official when a team has no timeouts remaining and shall
notify an official if a team takes an additional timeout.
15.6.5 The statistician shall record the names and numbers of the players who start the
game as well as all substitutes. When there is an infraction pertaining to the lineup,
substitutions, or numbers of players, the statistician shall notify an official during the
first stoppage of play. The statistician shall record the time players are ejected.
15.6.6 The statistician shall signal officials when there is a stoppage of play or to
correct a significant error during play by using a horn or other device unlike that used by
officials. If the statistician signals officials during live play, the players on the field shall
ignore it. Officials must use their judgment in stopping play.
15.7 Timers
15.7.1 The timer shall operate the game clock.
15.7.2 The timer shall notify the head official and both coaches 5 minutes before
the beginning of each half, and the scorer 2 minutes before the beginning of each
half.
15.7.3 The game clock shall be started on an official’s signal after each pull, timeout, or
other stoppage.
15.7.4 The game clock shall be stopped on an official’s signal after each score, timeout,
or other double whistle.
34

15.8 Disc Runners
15.8.1 Disc runners will be on opposite sidelines, remain close to the disc, and stay out
of the way of all players and officials.
15.8.2 If a disc is out of bounds by at least 2 yards, then a disc runner will hand a game
disc to an official. The official will place the disc in the proper spot or hand the disc to a
player waiting in the proper spot.
15.8.3 Disc runners will always have at least one disc in hand.
15.8.4 Disc runners will replace moved pylons as soon as practical.
35

16 General
16.1 Philosophy
16.1.1 The rules are intended to provide reasonable safety for all players and
ensure equal opportunity for both teams.
16.1.2 The penalties are intended to disincentivize fouls and to remedy
the disadvantages fouls cause.
16.1.3 The rules cannot cover every conceivable scenario, so officials may need
to invoke their elastic power.
16.1.4 Every official, timer, scorer, and disc runner shall understand their
responsibilities and relevant rules.
16.2 Game Cancellations
16.2.1 Prior to the opening pull, the home team management determines if
playing conditions warrant postponement. Once the game begins, the head official
shall terminate or delay the game due to hazardous playing conditions (e.g.,
lightning, tornado warning), as per the UFA Inclement Weather Policy
16.2.2 If a game is terminated before half time, the game is negated. If a game is
terminated after half time, the game is over and the score at the time of termination
is final.
16.2.3 Protests are not permitted during a game. To appeal the result of a game, a
general manager or head coach must notify the UFA Commissioner within 48 hours of
the game’s conclusion, stating the grounds for the protest.
16.2.4 The UFA shall immediately notify both teams upon the receipt of an appeal. An
operating member from each team must file evidence within 5 days. The UFA
Commissioner shall make a final decision within 5 days of receiving evidence.

